this piece of equipment is called the butcher's hook
sits in your hand and your fist right between
the middle of your hand between the fingers little
point on it this is designed to go into big pieces
of muscle you can pull that muscle away from
yourself so it's also assisting in the safety
as you are releasing big muscles you're pulling
the meat away as you're using your knife to cut
say very very close to the bone and then you're
pulling that actual big piece of muscle away
can also be used if you're doing something such
as an "Aitch" bone where you can actually hook it into
the "Aitch" bone pull away so that it is allowing you
with pressure just to release the actual bone from
the flesh a little bit easier, other equipment
you're going to see also in the butcher shop
is butcher's twine this is what we're going to
use for tying roasts something along those lines
and that's what it looks like it's always
called a roll and that is butcher's twine
this is a barding or a larding needle what we will
do with this is apply some fat into this push the
hook end through here all the way through and as
it squeezes through it would leave a piece of fat
and a very lean piece of meat that might need
roasting an example of this could quite easily
be a whole turkey where you perhaps would like to
put a little bit of fat into the breast because
it's going to cook a little bit quicker than
the legs so you're applying fat to moisturize
the meat, other equipment that you're going
to see in the butcher shop this is what we
refer to as the butcher saw or a bone saw so
this is used to actually saw through the bones
again if you don't have a bandsaw this is what
you would be using for that and this is a mesh
chain mail glove so you can see it's metal this
is used a lot in industrial meat packaging plants
it's normally put on the non cutting hand
so when you're doing lots of meat at a time
you will if you do cut yourself you will your
blade the point might still go through that
chain mail but it will stop you having
a really really nasty cut and again
that is used for safety that is a chain
mail butcher's glove, now we're moving into
fish and seafood equipment so this one this is a
japanese global this is for fish filleting very
very flexible so when you're coming through the
bones to say a flat fish it allows you to glide
that knife through the flesh across the top of the
bones, now we're moving into bone removal of fish
these are sort of a german style tweezers that
you can use to say pull the bones out of the side
of salmon these are japanese style tweezers and
these ones here these are just a very very small
tweezer we find these are great for removing
the bones from oily fish such as trout fillet
this is a scaler so for big fish if they're coming
in you've still got the scales on you can actually
run this down the scales and it will remove the
scales without tearing the skin and then this is
an oyster shucker, the oyster shucker got a little bit
of a lip angle so when you come into the oyster
it allows you to pop the shell up and again
all of this equipment are things that you will
see in the industry, not all of it is necessary for
you to have as you go through your time at college